8.2.6
 Diesel Generator Start Inhibit
The diesel generator start inhibit system is implemented in both the software of 
the Engine Control System and the software of the IAS. The
diesel generator start inhibiting is monitored and displayed in the diesel 
generator status process image. A start inhibit condition is indicated
on the power management process image by the text INHIBIT START.
The following conditions will result in a diesel generator start inhibit:
• Engine not pre-lubricated (ECS)
• Turning gear engaged (ECS)
• Stop lever in stop position (ECS)
• Engine still running (ECS)
• External start blocking (ECS)
• Active shutdown (includes the emergency stop button) (ECS))
• Local/remote selector switch in local position (ECS/IAS)

8.2.7
 Diesel Generator stop Inhibit
The diesel generator stop inhibit system is implemented in both the software of 
the ECS and the software of the IAS. The diesel generator stop
inhibiting is monitored and displayed in the diesel generator status process 
image. A stop inhibit condition is indicated on the power
management process image by the text INHIBIT STOP.
The following conditions will result in a diesel generator stop inhibit:
• Local/remote selector switch is in the local position (ECS/IAS)
• The calculated load set point on the remaining diesel generators is greater 
than 100% (PMS)

8.2.8
 Diesel Generator Connect Inhibit
The diesel generator connect inhibit is implemented in both the software of the 
generator protection unit in the main switchboard and the
software of the IAS. The diesel generator connect inhibiting is monitored and 
displayed in the diesel generator status process image. A
connect inhibit condition is indicated on the power management process image by 
the text INHIBIT CONNECT.
The following conditions will result in a diesel generator connect inhibit:
• Common fault / breaker alarm present (SWBD / IAS)
• Local/remote selector switch in local position (SWBD/IAS)
• Generator breaker tripped (SWBD / IAS)
• Diesel generator start blocked (and not running) (IAS)

8.2.9
 Diesel Generator Disconnect Inhibit
The diesel generator disconnect inhibiting is implemented in both the software 
of the generator protection unit at the 6.6kV main switchboard
and the software of the IAS. The diesel generator disconnect inhibiting 
conditions will be monitored and displayed in the diesel generator
status process image. A disconnect inhibit condition is indicated on the power 
management process image by the text INHIBIT
DISCONNECT.
The following conditions will result in a diesel generator disconnect inhibit:
• Local/remote selector switch is in the local position (SWBD / IAS)
• The calculated load set point on the remaining diesel generators is greater 
than 100% (IAS)

8.2.10 Diesel Generator Connect
The diesel generator can be connected to the 400V main switchboard as a result 
of the following:
• Manually initiated connect command
• Standby start initiated by the switchboard control system, as a result of:
-Load dependant start Heavy consumer start
-Blackout detection
-Alarm on a running & connected diesel generator

8.2.11 Diesel Generator Disconnect
The diesel generator can be disconnected from the 400V main switchboard as a 
result of the following:
• Manually initiated disconnect command
• Standby stop initiated by the IAS, as a result of: Load dependant stop

8.2.12 Diesel Generator disconnect When in Compensated droop load sharing mode
The diesel generator is disconnected via the DG DISCONNECT output in the IAS. A 
load reduction sequence will be initiated in the software
of the IAS. This will result in the load set point to the disconnecting diesel 
generator being set to 0kW.

8.2.13 Diesel Generator disconnect When in Isochronous load sharing mode
AS Compensated Droop, but instead of output control signals from the IAS, the 
electronic speed governor is controlling the load reduction.

8.2.14 Diesel Generator Safety Stop
The diesel generator safety stop function is implemented in the software of the 
ECS. The diesel generator safety stop conditions will be
monitored and displayed in the diesel generator status field. A safety stop 
condition is indicated on the power management process image by
the text SHUTDOWN and INTERNAL BLOCKED.
A diesel generator safety stop will activate an additional diesel generator 
request to the main switchboard control system.
The safety stop can be initiated as a result of the following conditions:
• Low-low lubricating oil pressure, inlet (ECS)
• High-high HT water temperature, outlet (ECS)
• Oil mist detector shutdown (ECS)
• Engine over-speed (ECS)

8.2.15 Load Dependant Start and Stop
The power management system will always ensure that the correct number of 
generators is connected for the actual electric power demand.
To enable load dependent start and stop, the load dependent start and stop 
functions must be switched on and sufficient generators set to
standby. The load dependent start and stop function is based on the percentage 
load of the connected generators. For load dependent start, a
set of values with different time delays are defined. A load dependent stop is 
initiated if the load on the remaining generators after stop will be
less than the specified value.
The following table shows the initial parameters for the load dependent start 
and stop function:


No. of Gen’s Connected & Start Limit 1 & Delay Time & Stop Limit & Delay Time
1 & 85% & 30s & &
2 & 85% & 30s & 35% & 10 min
3 & 85% & 30s & 45% & 10 min

8.2.16 Load sharing
The diesel generators speed governors can operate in two modes; isochronous and 
droop mode. A selector switch is located on each 400kV
main switchboard generator panel and a software button is available on the IAS 
power management screen enabling the selection of either
droop or isochronous load sharing mode.

8.2.17 Isochronous Load Sharing Mode
In isochronous load sharing mode the network frequency will be maintained at 
60Hz and the diesel generators load output will be shared
equally by means of the governor inbuilt isochronous load sharing control and 
the load sharing lines between the electronic speed governors.
The load control and frequency adjustment and hence the different operation 
modes within the IAS PMS will be disabled.

8.2.18 Droop Load Sharing Mode
When the speed governors are in droop load sharing mode and the generators are 
connected to the switchboard, the PMS controls the active
(kW) load sharing over the speed governor. The engine speed is controlled via 
the DG INCREASE SPEED and the DG DECREASE SPEED
outputs in the IAS.

8.2.19 Bus Tie Breaker Control
The 400V main switchboard bus tie breaker will be connect inhibited as a result 
of the following conditions:
• LOCAL/REMOTE selector switch is in the LOCAL position (connect attempt from 
IAS)
• No dead bus is detected on either switchboard
The 400V main switchboard bus tie breaker will be disconnect inhibited as a 
result of the following conditions:
• LOCAL/REMOTE selector switch is in the LOCAL position (disconnect attempt from 
IAS)
The 400V main switchboard bus tie breaker and can be connected as a result of 
the following:
• Manual activation
The 400V main switchboard bus tie breaker can be disconnected as a result of the 
following:
• Manual activation

8.2.20 Blackout Precautionary Measures via the PMS
The power management system (PMS) is equipped with the blackout precautionary 
measures as follows:
• Power limitation / load reduction by the PMS. This includes:
- Limitation of consumers load increase based on the available capacity
- Load reduction based on the average bus load
- Load reduction based on the individual generator load
- Load reduction based on the bus frequency
- Shedding of selected consumers
• Heavy consumer start
- If a heavy consumer (HC) shall be started a “Start Request” signal is sent to 
the PMS.
- If power is available “Start Granted” will be activated from the PMS.
- If the power available is too low, the stand by DG will be started and 
connected to the main switch board before “start granted” is activated.

PMS Module :

page 1
PMS shows the following status: The DG no 2 is in St-By and will be
the 1st to start (priority 2). Apparently, 1 generator is already online.
In the PMS ID, it also mentioned what BT is controlled by
The DG Auto (PMS) control and can be controlled remotely from the
Operator station in the ECR.
Modes: Semi or Auto
GS: When selected, the PMS module is controlled remotely from the
Graphic Station (GS) in the ECR.
Generator Breaker: Manual (semi) control of breaker
Generator: Manual control (start/stop) of DG
Bustie Breaker: Manual control of Bustie breaker
Priority: From this field the St.By number of the generator is set.
Alarm: Any alarm connected to the PMS can be reset by this button

Page 2
Load Dependant Stop: Depending on Operation mode and company
policy, it may be required to turn off the LD Stop functionality.
Droop/Isochronous: For the Diesel Generator, load sharing mode can
be selected whenever desired.
The AGS (Advanced Generator Supervisor) can be selected whenever
desired. Ref. to separate functional description.

Page 3
Even though it’s not recommended, the settings can be changed for
testing purposes.
Note! The st.by start limits and stop request limits can not be changed
from this window. However, common PMS settings are available
from the Variable List.


8.2.22 Advanced Generator Supervisor
The Advanced Generator Supervisor (AGS) is monitoring the performance of 
essential equipment, such as speed governor and AVR and will
give alarm if limits are exceeded and carry out black-out preventive actions if 
necessary.

The AGS functionality included:
1.) The following prime mover malfunctions will cause that the diesel generator 
is not performing as required: Governor failure, dirty fuel
filter and actuator faults/fuel rack stuck.
AGS will act upon the alarm(s) accordingly such as stand by start and trip of 
faulty generator. Speed/load share control change to droop mode.
See also table for details.
2.) The following AVR malfunctions will cause that the generator is not 
performing as required: Over excitation (loss of voltage feedback to
AVR) and under excitation (internal failure in the AVR)
AGS will act upon the alarm(s) accordingly such as stand by start and trip of 
faulty generator. Speed/load share control change to droop mode.
See also table for details.
